Welcome to our Special Morning Worship program for the most important day of the year.
It's a real privilege this morning, not just to speak to the Bethel family, but to be able
to share some scriptural thoughts with the majority of our dear brothers and sisters
right around the world, including you, wherever you may be this morning.
All of us are looking forward with excitement to this evening when we unitedly remember
the death of our Lord Jesus Christ.
But first, let's start by reading the scripture text selected for today.
We're going to ask Brother David Schaefer, I hope, with the teaching committee, to read
for us this morning.
Please, David, let's have the scripture text read.
Tuesday, April 7, 2020, the memorial date, after sundown.
The text is taken from Romans chapter 5 and verse 8.
Christ died for us.
Thank you, David.
Imagine please that you are in a prison cell.
You've just been notified that you will be executed in the morning because of your faith.
There is no further means of appeal.
The decision is final.
How will you spend this last night?
What will you do?
What will you think about?
Some of our brothers and sisters in the past have found themselves in this challenging situation.
Many of these used their last night to write letters to strengthen and comfort their friends
and relatives.
For example, consider the courageous words written by one young brother to his family as
he awaited death at the hands of Nazi persecutors.
He wrote,
It is already past midnight.
I still have time to change my mind.
Ah, could I be happy again in this world after I had denied our Lord?
Surely not.
But now you have the assurance that I leave this world in happiness and peace.
Because this dear brother didn't use that final evening just to focus on his own hardships.
Rather, he used part of that evening to encourage those whom he loved.
He wanted to strengthen them so that they wouldn't be overwhelmed by the sad news of his death.
Well with these thoughts in mind, let's now think about how Jesus spent his last evening
as a human here on earth.
To start with, let's ask this question.
By the time of that evening, what did Jesus know about the circumstances of his death?
To answer that question, let's read together what stated in Matthew 20.
So if you turn with me please, to Matthew 20 verses 18 and 19.
Jesus said,
Look, we are going up to Jerusalem and the Son of Man will be handed over to the chief priest and the scribes.
They will condemn him to death and hand him over to men of the nations to be mocked and scourged and executed on a stake.
And on the third day he will be raised up.
So on that final evening, what did Jesus already know about his death and what would he have been thinking about?
These verses that we just read mention four things.
First of all, it tells us that he knew he would be handed over to the Jewish religious leaders who would take him to court
and find him guilty of a crime, perhaps one including the charge of blasphemy.
Second, Jesus knew that he would be handed over to men of the nations, in other words the Romans, and that they would violently abuse him.
Third, he knew that he would be executed on a stake.
And the final point, he realized that he would be resurrected on the third day.
So on that final evening, Jesus already knew some of the details concerning his death and these would have weighed heavily on his mind.
But were there any other things that he already knew?
Yes, let's consider another three facts that were on his mind that evening.
The first one will notice if we turn to the book of John this time.
John chapter 13, and we're going to start by reading verse 21.
After saying these things, Jesus became troubled in spirit, and he will witness saying,
most truly I say to you, one of you will betray me.
Now if we turn across to verse 26, it tells us that Jesus continued to say,
it is the one to whom I will give the peace of bread that I dip.
So after dipping the bread, he took it and gave it to Judas, the son of Simon the scarred.
Jesus knew that one of his apostles would betray him, and he even knew who his betrayer would be.
Now for something else that Jesus knew, let's read verse 38 of the same chapter, John 13 and verse 38.
Jesus here said to Peter,
will you surrender your life in my behalf?
Most truly I say to you, a rooster will by no means crow until you have disowned me three times.
So Jesus also knew that Peter would deny him three times.
And for another point, let's turn to John chapter 16, John 16 and verse 32.
He is speaking to his apostles, Jesus said,
look, the hour is coming, indeed it has come,
when each one of you will be scattered to his own house and you will leave me alone.
So Jesus also realized that the rest of his apostles would run away and desert him.
So what did Jesus have on his mind that evening?
Not only would Jesus have been thinking about his upcoming court trial, persecution and execution.
He also knew that he would be betrayed, denied and abandoned.
Now if you were Jesus, how would you have reacted to this knowledge?
Perhaps you would have preferred to be by yourself, avoiding those who would fail you.
You might have thought it's better for me to spend the evening in prayer,
preparing properly without these negative distractions.
Just think about it.
Despite all these negative things, Jesus didn't hide away and stay by himself.
In fact, he told his apostles that he greatly desired to celebrate this last Passover with them.
In other words, he wasn't going to miss the meeting because of these negative things.
Amazingly, even with all these things on his mind, Jesus focused on how to help his faithful apostles.
He loved them and he wanted to prepare them for what was about to happen.
In fact, in John's account, five chapters are devoted to Jesus' final words of encouragement to his apostles.
What an amazing, unsophish love Jesus showed.
Just imagine, Jesus took the time to wash the feet of his apostles,
even the feet of his betrayer, due to his scarier.
Not only were the apostles unwilling to do this lowly service,
but when Jesus started to wash their feet, not one of them stood up and offered to take over.
Yes, they had a real problem with their attitude.
That was further shown by the fact that they had an argument that evening about who was the greatest among them.
But do we see the evidence of Jesus' love in all of this?
He didn't give up on them.
Jesus didn't allow these failures to cause him to have a negative view of his apostles.
Instead, he commended his 11 faithful apostles and even made a covenant with them to be part of his kingdom.
Isn't that truly amazing?
Additionally, Jesus earnestly prayed to Jehovah, not only to watch over those apostles,
but also to care for those who would later believe in him.
That includes us today.
Despite all the negative things on his mind,
Jesus focused on strengthening others and praying for them.
What an expression of unsophish love.
This evening, we'll be focusing on the love Jehovah and Jesus express for us.
But as we meditate on the events of nice and 14,
let's also remember how Jesus proved his love for his apostles by not giving up on them.
Even at a time when his thoughts would have been focused on the excruciating death that lay ahead of him,
he patiently helped them so that they could deal with what was about to happen.
What lessons can we learn from this?
Well, this may not be the last night of our life,
and we may not expect to be executed tomorrow.
But how can we imitate the love that Jesus displayed that final evening?
Here are some things we can all be determined to do.
Don't give up on our brothers and sisters, even if at times they seem to file us.
Continue to strengthen others even when we are facing difficulties.
In this way, we will also prove our genuine love for Jehovah and his loving son, Jesus Christ.
Now, David, let's have our comments read.
Jesus was willing not only to die for his disciples,
but also to live each day in a way that put their interests ahead of his own.
For instance, he met with his followers even when he was physically tired or emotionally distressed,
and he focused on what he could give to others, not on what he could get from them.
We belong to the only true Christian brotherhood,
and we enjoy spending as much time as possible, inviting new ones to join us.
However, we are particularly interested in helping those who are related to us in the faith,
but who have become inactive.
We prove our love for them by encouraging them to attend our meetings, especially the memorial.
Like Jehovah and Jesus, we are deeply moved when an inactive one returns to Jehovah.
Thank you, David, for reading for us this morning.
Now we're going to turn our attention to our scheduled Bible reading for this morning.
Now, on the first day of the unleavened bread,
when they customarily offered up the Passover sacrifice, his disciples said to him,
Where do you want us to go and prepare for you to eat the Passover?
With that, he sent two of his disciples and said to them,
Go into the city, and a man carrying an earthenware water jar will meet you.
Follow him, and wherever he goes inside,
say to the master of the house, the teacher says,
Where is the guest room where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?
And he will show you a large upper room furnished and ready.
Prepare it for us there.
So the disciples went out, and they entered the city,
and found it just as he said to them, and they prepared for the Passover.
On the first day of the unleavened bread, the disciples came to Jesus, saying,
Where do you want us to prepare for you to eat the Passover?
He said,
Go into the city to sow and sow, and say to him,
The teacher says,
My appointed time is near.
I will celebrate the Passover with my disciples at your home.
So the disciples did as Jesus instructed them, and prepared for the Passover.
After evening had fallen, he came with the twelve,
and as they were reclining at the table and eating, Jesus said,
Truly I say to you,
One of you who is eating with me will betray me.
They began to be grieved, and to say to him one by one,
It is not I, is it?
He said to them,
It is one of the twelve, the one dipping with me into the bowl.
For the Son of Man is going away, just as it is written about him.
But woe to that man, through whom the Son of Man is betrayed.
It would have been better for that man, if he had not been born.
And as they continued eating, he took a loaf,
Said a blessing, broke it, and gave it to them, saying,
Take it, this means my body.
And taking a cup, he offered thanks, and gave it to them,
And they all drank out of it, and he said to them,
This means my blood of the covenant, which is to be poured out in behalf of many.
Truly I say to you, I will by no means drink any more of the product of the vine,
Until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God.
Finally, after singing praises, they went out to them out of allies.
And Jesus said to them,
You will all be stumbled, for it is written.
I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered about.
But after I have been raised up, I will go ahead of you into Galilee.
But Peter said to him,
Even if all the others are stumbled, I will not be.
At that Jesus said to him,
Truly I say to you that today, yes, on this very night, before a rooster crows twice,
You will disown me three times.
But he kept insisting,
If I have to die with you, I will by no means disown you.
Also, all the others began to say the same thing.
So they came to a spot named Gethsemane, and he said to his disciples,
Sit down here while I pray.
And he took Peter and James and John along with him, and he began to feel deeply distressed,
And to be greatly troubled. He said to them,
I am deeply grieved, even to death.
Stay here, and keep on the watch.
And going a little way forward, he fell to the ground, and began praying that,
If it were possible, the hour might pass away from him.
And he said,
Abba, Father, all things are possible for you, remove this cup from me,
Yet not what I want, but what you want.
He returned and found them sleeping, and he said to Peter,
Simon, are you sleeping?
Did you not have the strength to keep on the watch for one hour?
Keep on the watch, and pray continually, so that you do not come into temptation.
The Spirit, of course, is eager, but the flesh is weak.
And he went away again and prayed, saying the same thing.
And he came again and found them sleeping, for their eyes were weighed down,
so they did not know what to answer him.
And he returned the third time, and said to them,
At such a time as this, you are sleeping and resting.
It is enough. The hour has come. Look, the son of man is being betrayed into the hands of sinners.
Get up, let us go. Look, my betrayer has drawn near.
And immediately, while he was still speaking, Judas, one of the twelve arrived,
and with him a crowd with swords and clubs, sent from the chief priests and the scribes and the
elders. Now his betrayer had given them an agreed sign, saying,
whoever it is I kiss, he is the one, take him into custody, and lead him away under guard.
And he came straight up and approached him and said,
Rabbi, and gave him a tender kiss, so they seized him and took him into custody.
However, one of those standing by drew his sword and struck the slave of the high priest,
taking off his ear. But in response, Jesus said to them,
Did you come out to arrest me with swords and clubs as against a robber?
Day after day, I was with you in the temple teaching, and yet you did not take me into custody.
Nevertheless, this is to fulfill the scriptures.
And they all abandoned him and fled. However, a certain young man wearing only a fine linen
garment over his naked body began to follow him nearby, and they tried to seize him,
but he left his linen garment behind and got away naked.
They now led Jesus away to the high priest, and all the chief priests and the elders and the
scribes assembled. But Peter, from a good distance, followed him as far as into the courtyard of the
high priest, and he was sitting together with the house attendants and warming himself before a
bright fire. Now the chief priests and the entire Sanhedrin were looking for testimony against
Jesus in order to put him to death, but they were not finding any. Many indeed were giving false
witness against him, but their testimonies were not in agreement. Also, certain ones were
standing up and bearing false witness against him, saying, We heard him say, I will throw down
this temple that was made with hands, and in three days I will build another not made with hands.
But even on these grounds, their testimony was not in agreement.
Then the high priest stood up in their midst and questioned Jesus, saying, Do you say nothing
and reply? What is it these men are testifying against you? But he kept silent and made no reply at
all. Again the high priest began to question him and said to him, Are you the Christ, the son of
the blessed one? Then Jesus said, I am, and you will see the son of man sitting at the right hand
of power and coming with the clouds of heaven. At this the high priest ripped his garments and said,
What further need do we have of witnesses? You heard the blasphemy. What is your decision?
They all condemned him as deserving of death, and some started to spit on him and to cover his
face and hit him with their fists and say to him, And slapping him in the face, the court
attendance took him. Now while Peter was below in the courtyard, one of the servant girls of the
high priest came. On seeing Peter warming himself, she looked straight at him and said, You too are
with the Nazarene, this Jesus. But he denied it, saying, Neither do I know him nor do I understand
what you are talking about. And he went outside to the entryway. There the servant girls saw him
and again began to say to those standing by, This is one of them. Again he was denying it.
And after a little while, those standing by again began saying to Peter, Certainly you are one
of them, for you are in fact a Galilean. But he started to curse and swear, I do not know this man
of whom you speak. Immediately a rooster crowed a second time, and Peter recalled what Jesus
had said to him, Before a rooster crowed twice, You will disown me three times. And he broke down
and began to weep. We're sure that those verses have helped to prepare us for the memorial
this evening. But before we finish, we'd like to assure you that the governing body loves you all.
Wherever you may be this evening, no matter what challenges you may face, it's our heartfelt wish
that Jehovah will richly bless you all. May our United efforts to be at the memorial this evening
bring praise to our loving Heavenly Father, Jehovah and His Son, Jesus Christ.